## Code Book of Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

### Flow of `run_analysis.R`

The following steps were implemented to meet all required steps of the project.

1. Load needed R packages for the code: `dplyr` and `reshape2`.
2. Download the data locally and unzip it into `data` folder. If `data` folder does not exist in the working directory of R then it will be generated by the code.
3. Load all the needed data into R.
4. Assign descriptive labels to the variables (REQUIREMENT #4).
5. Select columns from `X_test` and `X_train` datasets with measurements on the mean and standard deviation. (REQUIREMENT #2)
6. Put together test and train data. The information if a subject belongs to either `TRAIN` or `TEST` set is stored a newly created varable called `set`. (REQUIREMENT #1)
7. Merge descriptive activity labels from `activity_labels` data frame and assign descriptive label to it. Select only the required columns in the desired order, i.e., drop the numeric variable of `activityCode`. (REQUIREMENT #3)

Outcome dataset of the above steps is `all_data` data frame which meets requirements 1-4 of the R script. Further details about the description of the varibles can be found further down in the `Variables of all_data and tidy_data data frames`(#anchor) section of this file.

8. Melting `all_data` to be able to compute average of each variable for each activity and each subject using `dcast` function.
9. Computing the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
10. Pasteing "Average of " in front of each measurement variables' label to refect the change in the content of those columns.

Outcome dataset of the above steps 8-10 is `tidy_data` that meets requirements of tidy data in the wide format since 1) each variable measured is in one column and 2) each different observation of that variable is in a different row. The other 2 criteria for tidy data does not apply here since we have only one dataset.

11. Outputting the tidy dataset into `data` directory.


### Variables of all_data and tidy_data data frames {#anchor}

1. __subjectID__: this is the unique identifier of the 30 subjects whose data has been collected. Value list goes from 1 to 30.
2. __set__: this variable tells if a subject was part of `TRAIN` or `TEST` set. Value list: `TRAIN`, `TEST`.
3. __activity__: this variable tells which activity the subject was doing while the respective measurement was taken by the phone. Value list: `LAYING`, `SITTING`, `STANDING`, `WALKING`, `WALKING UPSTAIRS`, `WALKING DOWNSTAIRS`.  
4.-69. __rest of the columns__: for detailed descriptions about these columns and how the labels are built please see `README.txt` and `features_info.txt` that are part of the .zip file of the data package therefore they can be found in `data` folder after unzipping. The only difference in these columns between all_data and tidy_data is that all_data contains the actual measurements as described in README.txt and features_info.txt. Tidy_data contains the average of each variable for each activity and each subject of all_data. Therefore the labels have been modified and "Average of " has been pasted at the beggining of them, e.g., Average of tBodyAcc-mean()-X.
